C# sdk reference (#191)
clockworklabs/spacetime-docs: docs/sdks/c-sharp/index-v2.md

| [`Reducers` method](#method-reducers)                         | Provides access to reducers exposed by the remote module.                |
| [`Disconnect` method](#method-disconnect)                     | End the connection.                                                      |
| [Subscribe to queries](#subscribe-to-queries)                 | Register SQL queries to receive updates about matching rows.             |
| [Read connection metadata](#read-connection-metadata)         | Access the connection's `Identity` and `ConnectionId`                    |

### Interface `IRemoteDbContext`

Each module's `module_bindings` exports an interface `IRemoteDbContext` which inherits from `IDbContext`, with the type parameters `DbView` and `RemoteReducers` bound to the types defined for that module. This can be more convenient when creating functions that can be called from any callback for a specific module, but which access the database or invoke reducers, and so must know the type of the `DbView` or `Reducers`.

### Method `Db`

```csharp
interface IRemoteDbContext
{
    public DbView Db();
}
```

Call the `ctx.Db()` when operating in generic contexts.

#### Example

```csharp

> // TODO

Author: Rust sdk reference has an example of calling `ctx.Db()`

```

### Method `Reducers`

```csharp
interface IRemoteDbContext
{
    public RemoteReducers Reducers();
}
```

Call the `ctx.Reducers()` when operating in generic contexts.

#### Example

```csharp

> // TODO

Author: Rust sdk has an example of calling `ctx.Reducers()`

class RemoteTableHandle<EventContext, Row>
{
    /* members */
}
```

The type of rows in the table.

#### Property `Count`

```csharp
class RemoteTableHandle
{
    public int Count;
}
```

The number of rows of this table resident in the client cache, i.e. the total number which match any subscribed query.

#### Method `Iter`

```csharp
class RemoteTableHandle
{
    public IEnumerable<Row> Iter();
}
```

An iterator over all the subscribed rows in the client cache, i.e. those which match any subscribed query.

#### Callback `OnInsert`

```csharp
class RemoteTableHandle
{
    public delegate void RowEventHandler(EventContext context, Row row);
    public event RowEventHandler? OnInsert;
}
```

The `OnInsert` callback runs whenever a new row is inserted into the client cache, either when applying a subscription or being notified of a transaction. The passed [`EventContext`](#type-eventcontext) contains an [`Event`](#record-event) which can identify the change which caused the insertion, and also allows the callback to interact with the connection, inspect the client cache and invoke reducers. Newly registered or canceled callbacks do not take effect until the following event.

> TODO: Add example of registering and unregistering callback

Author: I.e. `.OnInsert +=` `.OnInsert -=`

#### Callback `OnDelete`

```csharp
class RemoteTableHandle
{
    public delegate void RowEventHandler(EventContext context, Row row);
    public event RowEventHandler? OnDelete;
}
```

The `OnDelete` callback runs whenever a previously-resident row is deleted from the client cache. Newly registered or canceled callbacks do not take effect until the following event.

> TODO: Add example of registering and unregistering callback

Author: I.e. `.OnDelete +=` `.OnDelete -=`

Author: Just point to quickstart

#### Callback `OnUpdate`

```csharp
class RemoteTableHandle
{
    public delegate void RowEventHandler(EventContext context, Row row);
    public event RowEventHandler? OnUpdate;
}
```

> The `OnUpdate` callback runs whenever an already-resident row in the client cache is updated, i.e. replaced with a new row that has the same primary key. Newly registered or canceled callbacks do not take effect until the following event.

Author: Can you set this if the table doesn't have a primary key?

Reviewer: Yes, but it does nothing.

Reviewer: Yes, but it does nothing.

> TODO: Add example of registering and unregistering callback

Author: I.e. `.OnUpdate +=` `.OnUpdate -=`

Author: Just point to quickstart

### Method `Build`

```csharp
class DbConnectionBuilder<DbConnection>
{
    public DbConnection Build();
}
```

After configuring the connection and registering callbacks, attempt to open the connection.

## Advance the connection and process messages

In the interest of supporting a wide variety of client applications with different execution strategies, the SpacetimeDB SDK allows you to choose when the `DbConnection` spends compute time and processes messages. If you do not arrange for the connection to advance by calling one of these methods, the `DbConnection` will never advance, and no callbacks will ever be invoked.

| Name                                        | Description                                           |
|---------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| [`FrameTick` method](#method-frametick)     | Process messages on the main thread without blocking. |

#### Method `FrameTick`

```csharp
class DbConnection {
    public void FrameTick();
}
```

> `FrameTick` will advance the connection until no work remains or until it is disconnected, then return rather than blocking. Games might arrange for this message to be called every frame.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`FrameTick` will advance the connection until no work remains or until it is disconnected, then return rather than blocking. Games might arrange for this message to be called every frame.

It is not advised to run `FrameTick` on a background thread, since it modifies [`dbConnection.Db`](#property-db). If main thread code is also accessing the `Db`, it may observe data races when `FrameTick` runs on another thread.

(Note that the SDK already does most of the work for parsing messages on a background thread. `FrameTick()` does the minimal amount of work needed to apply updates to the `Db`.)
```

| [`SubscribeToAllTables` method](#method-subscribetoalltables)                    | Convenience method to subscribe to the entire database.         |

##### Constructor `ctx.SubscriptionBuilder()`

```csharp
interface IRemoteDbContext
{
    public SubscriptionBuilder SubscriptionBuilder();
}
```

Subscribe to queries by calling `ctx.SubscriptionBuilder()` and chaining configuration methods, then calling `.Subscribe(queries)`.

##### Callback `OnApplied`

```csharp
class SubscriptionBuilder
{
    public SubscriptionBuilder OnApplied(Action<SubscriptionEventContext> callback);
}
```

Register a callback to run when the subscription is applied and the matching rows are inserted into the client cache.

##### Callback `OnError`

```csharp
class SubscriptionBuilder
{
    public SubscriptionBuilder OnError(Action<ErrorContext, Exception> callback);
}
```

Register a callback to run if the subscription is rejected or unexpectedly terminated by the server. This is most frequently caused by passing an invalid query to [`Subscribe`](#method-subscribe).

##### Method `Subscribe`

```csharp
class SubscriptionBuilder
{
    public SubscriptionHandle Subscribe(string[] querySqls);
}
```

> Subscribe to a set of queries. `queries` should be a string or an array, vec or slice of strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subscribe to a set of queries. `queries` should be an array of SQL query strings.
```

TODO: Add example of registering and unregistering callback

#### Callback `OnDelete`

```csharp
class RemoteTableHandle
{
    public delegate void RowEventHandler(EventContext context, Row row);
    public event RowEventHandler? OnDelete;
}
```

The `OnDelete` callback runs whenever a previously-resident row is deleted from the client cache. Newly registered or canceled callbacks do not take effect until the following event.

TODO: Add example of registering and unregistering callback

#### Callback `OnUpdate`

```csharp
class RemoteTableHandle
{
    public delegate void RowEventHandler(EventContext context, Row row);
    public event RowEventHandler? OnUpdate;
}
```

The `OnUpdate` callback runs whenever an already-resident row in the client cache is updated, i.e. replaced with a new row that has the same primary key. Newly registered or canceled callbacks do not take effect until the following event.

TODO: Add example of registering and unregistering callback

### Unique constraint index access

> For each unique constraint on a table, its table handle has a property which is a unique index handle and whose name is the unique column name. This unique index handle has a method `.Find(Column: value)`. If a `Row` with `value` in the unique column is resident in the client cache, `.Find` returns it. Otherwise it returns null.

Reviewer: This needs an example, also should say `.Find(Column value)`.

Module-side I just unique indexes as a class. 

https://github.com/clockworklabs/spacetime-docs/pull/193/files#diff-84b02ce60e346c81f89c934fbaa3096d08eac9ee7c3f2cac7372efa3127ef128R450

Module-side we kind of have to fake it --the base class doesn't actually have all the methods I pretend it does, due to nullable generic struct/class problems. I don't know if that's the case SDK-side.

### BTree index access

> For each btree index defined on a remote table, its corresponding table handle has a property which is a btree index handle and whose name is the name of the index. This index handle has a method `IEnumerable<Row> Filter(Column value)` which will return `Row`s with `value` in the indexed `Column`, if there are any in the cache.

Reviewer: Similarly, an example here would be nice.

## Observe and invoke reducers

All [`IDbContext`](#interface-idbcontext) implementors, including [`DbConnection`](#type-dbconnection) and [`EventContext`](#type-eventcontext), have a `.Reducers` property, which in turn has methods for invoking reducers defined by the module and registering callbacks on it.

Each reducer defined by the module has three methods on the `.Reducers`:

- An invoke method, whose name is the reducer's name converted to snake case, like `set_name`. This requests that the module run the reducer.
- A callback registation method, whose name is prefixed with `on_`, like `on_set_name`. This registers a callback to run whenever we are notified that the reducer ran, including successfully committed runs and runs we requested which failed. This method returns a callback id, which can be passed to the callback remove method.
- A callback remove method, whose name is prefixed with `remove_on_`, like `remove_on_set_name`. This cancels a callback previously registered via the callback registration method.

## Identify a client

### Type `Identity`

> A unique public identifier for a client connected to a database.

Reviewer: May want methods, or alternatively just link to the module-side `Identity` docs once I write those up...

Author: I added a couple comments for linking to the module docs once those are ready.

Reviewer: We'll also want `Timestamp` and `TimeDuration`. I don't think `ScheduleAt` is necessary here.

Reviewer 2: I'm making a follow-up ticket. `Timestamp` and `TimeDuration` aren't documented in any of the SDKs currently. We'll get to them in a fast-follow.
